hello and welcome to crouton
crackerjacks today I'm going to show you
how to make this delicious chicken
parmesan this is one of those dishes it
sounds a lot more complicated than it
really is but it's really simple these
DVDs that you'll need so let's get
started
I'm going to start off with two boneless
skinless chicken breasts here and these
have been - thawed and using a knife I'm
just going to trim off the grisly parts
and the excess fat maybe some of the
skin that's left over on there I'm just
going to trim them up and clean them up
a little bit then I'm going to cut that
breast right in half set those off onto
a plate and then trim up and clean up my
second chicken breasts now I've got a
piece of wax paper here and I put that
onto my cutting board and I made it long
enough so I can fold it over on itself
and I'm just going to use a small cup
here and I'm going to pound out my
breast halves until they are about 1/2
an inch thicker so now you can use
anything heavy that you want to use if
you have a meat mallet you can use that
I don't happen to have one so that's why
I'm using my small bowl you can also use
the bottom of a skillet or a frying pan
you can use a rolling pin really
whatever you have that's relatively
heavy that you can pound this out with
and when you get them all done this is
what they will look like this should be
about a half an inch thick or so maybe a
little bit thinner and now I can start
working on our breading ingredients the
first thing I'm going to need is an egg
wash so I'm going to take two large eggs
and crack those into a bowl and if you
get any shells in there be sure to get
those out don't want any little crunchy
bits and your chicken parmesan and using
a fork I'm just going to whisk these
together in another bowl I've got about
one and a half cups of Italian style
bread crumbs and I'm going to add in 1/4
of a cup of grated Parmesan cheese now
I'm using my homemade Italian bread
crumbs here I will put a link in the
description box that will take you to a
video that shows how I make those and
then finally in a third Bowl I've got
about a half a cup of flour I'm going to
add in a teaspoon of salt and a half a
teaspoon of ground black pepper I'm just
going to mix this together
and now we can start breading our
chicken now the breading process is
really simple on this you just want to
take one of your powdered out pieces of
chicken and dredge it in the flour
mixture shake off the excess and then
put it into your eggs then you want to
let the excess drip off and then you
want to go right into your breadcrumbs
now you want to take your breadcrumbs
and kind of push them into your chicken
there and that will make sure that you
get a nice thick coating on your chicken
and when you get that completely coated
go ahead and set it off onto a plate and
then continue breading the rest of your
chicken and once all your chicken is
breaded you want to let this sit and let
that coating kind of adhere to the
chicken for about 15 minutes or so
before you cook them up I've got my
small cast-iron skillet on medium-high
heat here and I'm going to put in about
a quarter of an inch or so of extra
virgin olive oil into the bottom of that
and I'm going to let that come up to
temperature and then I'm going to start
frying up my chicken pieces now you
don't want to crowd your pan too much
here you want to give them a little room
to breathe and you want to fry these for
about two minutes on each side
now frying these will not cook the
chicken completely we're going to be
baking these and that will finish
cooking them so don't worry about
cooking the chicken all the way through
you just want to get the breading nice
and golden brown and after about two
minutes they should be golden brown on
the first side go ahead and flip them
over and continue cooking for another
two minutes or so on the second side and
once they're golden brown on the second
side you want to remove them off to a
plate lined with paper towels and then
you want to repeat this process with the
other pieces of chicken now that all my
chicken has been pan-fried I'm going to
put this into a glass baking dish I'm
using a seven by eleven I think baking
dish you can use a nine by thirteen you
just want to put your chicken pieces in
there make sure that they're not
overlapping at all and then you want to
ladle on some marinara sauce onto each
one of your chicken parmesans now this
is my homemade marinara sauce it is my
spaghetti sauce - the meat and I have a
video that shows how I make that I will
again put the link in the description
box so you can see how I make that you
could also use jarred speak
any sauce that is perfectly fine you
just want to put maybe about quarter of
a cup half a cup or so of marinara sauce
on each chicken parmesan next I'm going
to take some shredded mozzarella cheese
and put a handful or so on top of each
chicken parmesan and you can leave it
with just the mozzarella on it and it
would still be perfectly delicious
however I'm going to take it up a notch
and I'm going to add just a little bit
of Parmesan cheese on top of the
mozzarella and then you want to bake
these in a preheated 350 degree oven for
between 20 and 30 minutes or so you want
to make sure that the chicken is cooked
completely and done all the way through
and the cheese is nice and golden brown
on top and when they are done this is
what they will look like now you can
serve these exactly as they are however
I like to serve mine over pasta so while
these were in the oven I made up a pot
of spaghetti you could also use these
and make chicken parmesan sandwiches
which would be absolutely amazing but
since I did decide to serve this on
spaghetti when it and put some spaghetti
onto a plate there pick out one of the
chicken parmesans and put it right on
top you could add more sauce to this if
you would like and there you go how to
make chicken parmesan at home from
scratch I hope you guys enjoy and thanks
so much for watching
if you liked this video be sure to give
it a thumbs up subscribe for more
deliciousness and if you'd like to
follow me on Google Plus Facebook and/or
Pinterest all my links will be in the
description box we'll see you next time
[Music]